PRACTICE EXAM 1
MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS
DIRECTIONS
Time: 55 minutes
55 Questions
Each of the questions or incomplete statements is followed by
four suggested answers or completions. Select the one that is best in each case.
Source materials have been edited for the purpose of this exercise.
Questions 1-2 refer to the excerpt below.
Native Americans lived in a world that was more pervasively religious—or spiritual—than Europeans did. Most Native
languages did not even have a word for religion. That concept, in western use, can imply a set of beliefs or practices
set apart from the rest of life. Separating the sacred and mundane did not make sense in the mental world of Native
Americans...The physical world was teeming with spiritual forces. Fish nets might communicate with fish. Humans were
not so different from the plants and animals surrounding them, not from sky, earth, fire and water. Humans were elemental
and sentient, as were their surroundings.
Thomas Kidd, historian, American Colonial History Clashing Cultures and Faiths, 2016
1. According to the excerpt, Native American spirituality was mostly shaped by
(A) the avoidance of spirituality within existing tribal political and social systems
(B) the belief that was spirituality ingrained in nature
(C) the introduction of the word, “religion,” by Europeans
(D) the separation of religion and spirituality
2. One immediate reaction to the ideas expressed in the excerpt was
(A) increased Native American resistance to forced conversions to Christianity
(B) the integration of Native American spirituality into the religious practices of Plymouth colonists
(C) an increase in the number of Christian missionaries interacting with Native Americans in the Americas
(D) the enslavement of Native Americans and implementation of the encomienda system
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 1 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 3-5 refer to the excerpt below.
It has been accounted a strange thing, that the Negroes, being more than double the numbers of the Christians that are
there... that these should not commit some horrid massacre upon the Christians, thereby to enfranchise themselves and
become Masters of the Island. But there are three reasons that take away this wonder; the one is, they are not suffered to
touch or handle any weapons. The other, that they are held in such awe and slavery, as they are fearful to appear in any
daring act...Besides these; there is a third reason, which stops all designs of that kind, and that is, they are fetch’d from
several parts of Africa, who speak several languages, and by that means, one of them understands not another.
Richard Ligon, historian, A True and Exact History of the Island of Barbados, 1673
3. Which of the following best describes the purpose of the excerpt?
(A) The author is hopeful that conversions to Christianity will prevent the massacre of enslaved peoples.
(B) The author is warning British colonists about the growing possibility of slave rebellions in the Caribbean Islands.
(C) The author is trying to convince British colonies to halt the forced movement of enslaved peoples from Africa and to focus on
the intra-Caribbean trade.
(D) The author is advocating for slaveholders to invoke fear within those they enslave, while restricting their access to weapons.
4. Which of the following actions represents a continuity of the ideals expressed in the excerpt?
(A) the passage of Black Codes during the Reconstruction Era
(B) the migration of African Americans to the North after the First World War
(C) the Union’s refusal to enlist African Americans into military service during the Civil War
(D) the Democratic Party’s eventual support of the Freedmen’s Bureau after the Civil War
5. Ligon would most likely support which of the following claims?
(A) Slaveholders should ensure that enslaved people assimilate into colonial life by learning English.
(B) Harsh treatment of enslaved people discourages violent rebellions.
(C) Population growth of enslaved people should be halted so that slaveholders are not outnumbered.
(D) Enslaved people should not be utilized in agricultural labor because they may use farm tools against slaveholders.
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 2 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 6-8 refer to the map below.
6. Which of the following historical developments directly
contributed to the boundaries depicted in the map?
(A) the beginning of salutary neglect in the British North
American colonies
(B) the end of the French and Indian War and the signing of the
Treaty of Paris
(C) the implementation of the Coercive Acts after the Boston Tea
Party
(D) the establishment of the Stamp Act Congress in 1765
7. The map most directly depicts
(A) the shifting borders after the violent conflicts between Spain
and Britain along the Mississippi River
(B) the effects of ongoing disputes between the British tidewater
aristocrats and Native Americans
(C) the growing tensions between Great Britain and British
colonists living in Canada
(D) the limitation of colonial expansion by the British colonists
past the Appalachian Mountains
8. An immediate effect of the boundaries depicted on the map was
(A) a temporary alliance between the American colonies and France
(B) the migration of yeoman backcountry farmers to coastal cities
(C) a growing tension between the American colonies and the British government
(D) Great Britain’s desire to dissolve colonial legislatures
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 3 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 9-12 refer to the excerpt below.
I stood in the balcony, and on my right hand were ranged all the people of property, with some few poor dependents, and
on the other all the tradesmen...who thought it worth their while to leave daily labor for the good of the country. The spirit
of the English Constitution has yet a little influence left, and but a little. The remains of it, however, will give the wealthy
people a superiority this time, but would they secure it they must banish all schoolmasters and confine all knowledge to
themselves. This cannot be. The mob begins to think and to reason. Poor reptiles! It is with them a vernal morning; they
are struggling to cast off their winter’s slough, they bask in the sunshine, and before noon they will bite, depend upon it.
The gentry begin to fear this. Their committee will be appointed, they will deceive the people, and again forfeit a share of
their confidence. And if these instances of what with one side is policy, with the other perfidy, shall continue to increase,
and become more frequent, farewell aristocracy. I see, and I see it with fear and trembling, that if the disputes with Great
Britain continue, we shall be under the worst of all possible dominions; we shall be under the domination of a riotous mob.
Gouverneur Morris, Letter to John Penn, New York, May 1774
9. The ideas expressed in the excerpt
(A) served as a warning of potential conflict between different social classes
(B) encouraged compensation for merchants whose cargo was destroyed during the Boston Tea Party
(C) criticized radical organizations like the Sons of Liberty for disrupting political and social order
(D) reminded colonists that Great Britain continued to hold authority and supremacy over them
10. Based on the excerpt, Gouverneur Morris would most likely agree with which of the following arguments?
(A) The aristocracy should suppress the middle class in order to prevent civil war.
(B) A successful revolution requires genuine collaboration between the rich and poor.
(C) Wealthy landowners rarely included other groups in protests against British rule.
(D) Tradesmen had the most to economically gain from a war with Great Britain.
11. Which of the following historical developments directly contributed to ideas expressed in the excerpt?
(A) The First Great Awakening encouraged dedication to social and religious groups.
(B) The Puritans’ religious separation from the British set forth the idea that colonists could also seek political separation from
the British.
(C) Great Britain’s decision to end salutary neglect and shift more financial responsibility to the colonies.
(D) Enlightenment thinkers proposed that natural rights applied to all men.
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 4 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
12. Which of the following historical events would best illustrate the primary message of the excerpt?
(A) the leadup to the American Civil War
(B) the adoption of the United States Constitution
(C) the events surrounding Shays’ Rebellion.
(D) the establishment of the Bank of the United States
Questions 13-16 refer to the excerpt below.
“Despite their wide diversity, Methodists, Baptists, Universalists, Disciples, Mormons, and Millerites were all
communication entrepreneurs, and their movements were crusades for broadcasting the truth. Each was wedded to the
transforming power of the word, spoken, written, and sung; each was passionate about short-circuiting a hierarchical
flow of information; each was supremely confident that the vernacular and the colloquial were the most fitting channels
for religious expression; and each was content to measure the success of individuals and movements by their ability to
persuade. By systematically employing lay preachers, by exploiting a golden age of local publishing, and by spreading new
forms of religious folk music, they ensured the forceful delivery of their message.”
Nathan O. Hatch, historian, The Democratization of American Christianity, 1989
13. The excerpt suggests that the Second Great Awakening
(A) increased the ties between church and state, particularly in former Puritan areas
(B) caused a decentralization of religious power throughout the United States
(C) had a limited impact in urban areas and the Burned-Over District of New York
(D) created a new class of middle-income Americans focused on gaining more religious power in their denominations
14. During the first half of the 19th century, the changes seen within the American church would be most similar to
(A) the expansion of the right to vote for White males without property or money
(B) the emergence of a landed aristocracy that gained influence during the 1830s
(C) the creation of limited voting rights for women in several states
(D) the limitation of property rights only to male church members in many states
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 5 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
15. The attitudes held by “Methodists, Baptists, Universalists, Disciples, Mormons, and Millerites” and other Christian groups during
the Second Great Awakening would be most similar to
(A) populists who wished for the elimination of the Gold Standard and the implementation of bi-metalism
(B) compromisers who fought for the passage of the Missouri Compromise and the admission of Maine and Missouri into the Union
(C) reformers who advocated for an increase in workers’ rights and protection of those with mental disabilities
(D) Anti-Free-Soilers who hoped to expand American slavery into the West and Southwest
16. One major effect of the historical processes in the excerpt was
(A) the creation of the Whig Party with factions in the North and the South
(B) the settling of western states such as Oregon and California
(C) the election of an Evangelical Christian majority in the United States Senate for the first time
(D) the expansion of anti-slavery Christianity in northern states
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 6 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 17-19 refer to the excerpt below.
And, whereas, we believe that those who have preceded us have been, we know that ourselves are, and that our successors
are liable to be, assailed in various ways by the wicked and unprincipled, and cheated out of just, legal and constitutional
dues, by ungenerous, illiberal and avaricious capitalists,—and convinced that “union is power,” and that as the unprincipled
consult and advise, that they may the more easily decoy and seduce—and the capitalists that they may the more effectually
defraud—we (being the weaker,) claim it to be our undeniable right, to associate and concentrate our power, that we may
the more successfully repel their equally base and iniquitous aggressions.
Constitution of the Lowell Factory Girls Association, 1836
17. The concerns expressed in the excerpt were a direct response to
(A) the growing emphasis on republican motherhood and enforcement of separate spheres for men and women
(B) the United States’ shift from a reliance on subsistence agriculture to a reliance on manufacturing
(C) the widening power gap between the wealthy elite and the working class
(D) the federal government’s legalization of union membership and collective bargaining
18. Perspectives such as those expressed in the excerpt most directly contributed to
(A) the sentiments proclaimed by the organizers of the Seneca Falls Convention
(B) factory owners’ beliefs that women were no longer capable of manufacturing work
(C) the expansion of political rights for the common man during the era of Jacksonian democracy
(D) the emergence of investigative journalism that exposed poor working conditions that women faced in factories
19. Which of the following would best describe why the Lowell Factory Girls Association began to lose influence in the 1840s
and 1850s?
(A) As educational opportunities in state universities expanded for women, many young women began to leave their factory work.
(B) As more immigrants from Western and Northern Europe began to arrive in the United States, employment opportunities for
young women began to diminish.
(C) Men in power began to believe that it was improper for younger women to work, and the Lowell girls were replaced by
older women.
(D) Because of the approaching Civil War, the momentum towards social and economic equality for women in the workplace
slowed considerably.
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 7 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 20-22 refer to the excerpt below.
As the golden news spread...to the outside world, it triggered the most astonishing mass movement of peoples since the
Crusades. From all over the planet they came—from Mexico and Peru and Chile and Argentina, from Oregon and Hawaii
and Australia and New Zealand and China, from the American North and the American South, from Britain and France
and Germany and Italy and Greece and Russia...They came in companies and alone, with money and without, knowing
and naïve. They tore themselves from warm hearths and good homes, promising to return; they fled from cold hearts
and bad debts, never to return. They were farmers and merchants and sailors and slaves and abolitionists and soldiers of
fortune and ladies of the night. They jumped bail to start their journey, and jumped ship at journey’s end. They were the
pillars of their communities, and their communities’ dregs….”
H.W. Brands, historian, The Age of Gold The California Gold Rush and the New American Dream, 2002
20. The excerpt best illustrates which of the following developments?
(A) The construction of the transcontinental railroad and the implementation of the Homestead Act were the main factors for
western migration.
(B) Due to the increasing racial and ethnic diversity, California witnessed large population growth immediately followed by
violence between migrant groups.
(C) The discovery of gold and a desire to accumulate wealth attracted migrants from all over the United States and world.
(D) As they migrated west, White settlers began to displace Native American tribes on the Great Plains.
21. What was one similarity between the events described in the excerpt and British migration to the Chesapeake colonies in the
17th-century?
(A) Settlers migrated to unsettled areas primarily to seek freedom from religious persecution.
(B) Native Americans often violently clashed with new inhabitants.
(C) Migrants were primarily escaping financial burdens and debts when they moved to America.
(D) Immigrants traveled a great distance to find economic opportunities.
22. Which of the following historical situations was an immediate effect of the events described in the excerpt?
(A) the fear of an unequal number of slave and free states causing an imbalance in the U.S. Senate
(B) the repeal of the Chinese Exclusion Act which had restricted immigration from East Asia
(C) the emergence of the Whig Party to counter the rise of pro-slavery Democrats
(D) the development of new agricultural inventions including the mechanical reaper and grain elevator
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 8 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 23-25 refer to the excerpt below.
Although the anti-slavery enterprise was begun some thirty years ago, the evil is still rampant in the land... I shall briefly
explain that there are thirty-two states, sixteen of which are free and sixteen slave-states. The free states are in the north.
The political feeling in the north and the south are essentially different. So is the social life. In the north, democracy — not
what the Americans call democracy but the true principle of equal rights, prevails — I speak of the white population, mind
— wealth is abundant. The country, in every material sense, flourishes. In the south, aristocratic feelings prevail. Labor is
dishonorable and five millions of poor whites live in the most degrading ignorance and destitution. I might dwell long on
the miserable condition of these poor whites, the indirect victims of slavery. But I must go on to speak of the four millions
of slaves. The slaves are essentially things, with no rights, political, social, domestic or religious the absolute victims of all
but irresponsible power. For the slave there is no home, no love, no hope, no help; and what is life without hope?
Sarah Parker Redmond, Why Slavery is Still Rampant in the Land, 1859
23. The excerpt best reflects which of the following historical situations?
(A) Most Southerners viewed slavery as both necessary and evil.
(B) The majority of White northerners were willing to campaign against slavery.
(C) Sectional views on social and political values were deeply embedded.
(D) Poverty was rare in the North because of its free-market economy.
24. Based on the excerpt, Redmond would most likely agree that...
(A) poorer White Americans in the South benefited from slavery as it granted them superior socio-economic status over those
who were enslaved
(B) the American abolitionist movement had seen great strides over the previous decades
(C) Northerners should be politically obligated to impose democratic values on the South
(D) the North was both financially and morally superior to the South
25. The ideas expressed in the excerpt most likely served to
(A) encourage White Americans to join the abolitionist movement
(B) recognize the absence of equal rights for African Americans
(C) inform Northerners why the South relies on slavery
(D) call upon the victims of slavery to rise up against Southern slaveholders
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 9 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Published by James G. Varney, New York, July 31, 1856
Questions 26-27 refer to the image above.
26. The image most directly reflects
(A) criticism of the Democratic Party’s stance on the expansion of slavery
(B) the North’s dissatisfaction with the federal government’s enforcement of of the Fugitive Slave Law
(C) the election fraud committed by political machines during the Antebellum Era
(D) disputes over offering statehood to lands purchased from Mexico after the Mexican-American War
27. Which of the following historical developments contributed to the events that are illustrated in the image?
(A) Democratic and Republican support for the American Colonization Society
(B) the rise of anti-Catholic sentiments in the United States
(C) the migration of pro-slavery and anti-slavery Americans into the Kansas Territory
(D) the effects of the Indian Removal Act and the Trail of Tears
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 10 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 28-29 refer to the excerpt below.
The Federal Government results from a compact entered into between separate, sovereign, and independent States, called
the Constitution of the United States, and amendments thereto, by which these sovereign States delegated certain specific
powers to be used by that Government for the common defense and general welfare of all the States and their citizens; and
when these powers are abused, or used for the destruction of the rights of any State or its citizens, each State has an equal
right to judge for itself as well of the violations and infractures of that instrument as the mode and measure of redress; and
if the interest or safety of her citizens demands it, may resume the powers she had delegated without let or hindrance from
the Federal Government or any other power on earth.
Stephen F. Hale, Letter to Alabama Governor Beriah Magoffin, December 1860
28. The excerpt was written in response to
(A) the border states’ refusal to secede from the Union with other slaveholding states
(B) President Abraham Lincoln’s suspension of habeas corpus at the beginning of the Civil War
(C) the Republican Party platform which specifically called for the abolition of slavery throughout the United States
(D) the growing fear that the federal government would infringe upon the Southern way of life
29. The ideas expressed in the excerpt are most similar to
(A) Anti-Federalist insistence on explicitly including a Bill of Rights in the Constitution
(B) Thomas Jefferson’s interpretation of social contract theory as expressed in the Declaration of Independence
(C) Herbert Hoover’s justification in removing World War I veterans from the Capitol after the Bonus Army marched on
Washington D.C.
(D) lawsuits brought by the NAACP against Jim Crow laws in the South after the Second World War
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 11 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 30-32 refer to the excerpt below.
They have no wives, children or dependents. They are imported by companies, controlled as serfs, worked like slaves, and
at last go back to China with all their earnings. They are in every place...Boys work, girls work; it is all alike to them. The
father of a family is met by them at every turn. Would he get work for himself? Ah! A stout [Chinese immigrant] does the
work cheaper. Will he get a place for his oldest boy? He can not...Every door is closed.
Address by Denis Kearney, 1878
30. Kearney’s address was most likely intended to
(A) promote immigration restrictions on Asian migrants
(B) argue for fairer wages for White workers
(C) encourage the return of traditional family values
(D) end the Open Door Policy with China
31. Which of the following would most likely have objected to the ideas expressed in the excerpt?
(A) members of the working class
(B) labor unions
(C) railroad companies
(D) nativists
32. The concerns expressed in the excerpt were most likely a response to
(A) the growing number of European immigrants entering the United States through Ellis Island
(B) the work of Progressive Era reformers who welcomed immigrants into major cities
(C) the growing rates of acceptance towards immigrants in California
(D) the competitive job market that resulted from an increase in immigration
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 12 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 33-35 refer to the graph above.
33. Between 1860 and 1900, which of the following would be a direct consequence of the trends depicted in the graph?
(A) a large expansion of the middle class in suburban areas outside of urban centers
(B) a decrease in the wealth gap between the wealthy and the poor
(C) a stronger federal government devoted to protecting the growing urban population
(D) the tremendous growth of the lower class in urban America
34. Which of the following is most accurate considering the context of the graph?
(A) Farmers formed a new political party in hopes of gaining more power for rural America.
(B) Rural Americans, sensing their loss of power, began moving to the cities for new jobs and economic opportunities.
(C) The increase of technologies in railroads and grain elevators created more farming efficiencies which led to an increase in the
number of farmers.
(D) Dust storms, inflation, and oppressive agricultural organizations such as The Grange meant that more rural Americans were
discouraged from farming.
35. What was the greatest contributing factor for the changes depicted in the graph?
(A) The creation of a national railway system allowed Americans to easily travel to larger American cities.
(B) With the spread of industrialization, there were more jobs available for natural born citizens and immigrants in the cities.
(C) After the Civil War, hundreds of thousands of African Americans migrants moved north to escape persecution in the South.
(D) The wars between the United States and Native American tribes led to a fear of living too far outside of cities.
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 13 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 36-38 refer to the excerpt below.
It seems to me that God, with infinite wisdom and skill, is training the Anglo-Saxon race for an hour sure to come in the
world’s future. Heretofore there has always been in the history of the world a comparatively unoccupied land westward,
into which the crowded countries of the East have poured their surplus populations. But the widening waves of migration,
which millenniums ago rolled east and west from the valley of the Euphrates, meet to-day on our Pacific coast. There are
no more new worlds. The unoccupied arable lands of the earth are limited, and will soon be taken. The time is coming
when the pressure of population on the means of subsistence will be felt here as it is now felt in Europe and Asia. Then will
the world enter upon a new stage of its history—the final competition of races, for which the Anglo-Saxon is being schooled.
Josiah Strong, Our Country, 1885
36. The ideas expressed in the excerpt would most likely support
(A) federal legislation that restricted European and Asian immigration
(B) the American conquest of uninhabitable lands before European settlement
(C) a foreign policy that favored the expansion of American ideals and culture
(D) the preservation of American dominance in East and South Asia
37. The ideas about race expressed in the excerpt are most consistent with
(A) the beliefs of Social Darwinists
(B) the rejection of self-determination as an ideal
(C) the declining interest in eugenics and racial hierarchy
(D) the development of legal segregation in the South
38. Based on the excerpt, which of the following would Josiah Strong likely have supported?
(A) the United States’ purchase and acquisition of Alaska from Russia
(B) the United States’ role in the creation of Liberia
(C) Congressional passage of the Emergency Quota Act of 1921
(D) the American conquest of the Philippines after the Spanish-American War
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 14 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 39-40 refer to the excerpt below.
It is logically true and may be historically demonstrated that “the state is the source of individual liberty.” It is the state that
makes liberty possible, determines what its limits shall be, guarantees and protects it...men do not begin with complete
liberty and organize government by sacrificing certain parts of this liberty, but on the contrary they obtain liberty only
through the organization of political institutions. The state does not take away from civil liberty, but is the creator of
liberty—the power that makes it possible.
Charles Merriam, A History of American Political Theories, 1903
39. Perspectives such as those similar to the excerpt would most likely reject the idea that
(A) the government protects individual liberties
(B) rights are inherently given by nature
(C) the Founders were influenced by John Locke
(D) individuals sacrifice their rights in order to be part of the state
40. Which of the following exemplifies the ideals from the excerpt?
(A) the struggles of labor unions against corporations and trusts
(B) the Great Migration of African Americans to major cities in the North and Midwest
(C) the implementation of the Espionage and Sedition Acts during the First World War
(D) the Progressive reforms addressing poverty in larger metropolitan areas
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 15 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis
Questions 41-44 refer to the graphs above.
41. Which of the following was a direct cause of the post-1940 trends depicted in the graphs?
(A) Great Britain and France signed a new trade agreement with the United States.
(B) President Franklin Roosevelt focused both military and economic attention on developing an atomic bomb.
(C) The federal government nearly doubled the minimum wage in the United States.
(D) The United States mobilized the economy and entered the Second World War.
42. What conclusion about the effects of the New Deal can be drawn from the graphs?
(A) The American economy was moderately impacted by the New Deal.
(B) The Gross Domestic Product of the United States did not grow until 1941.
(C) The New Deal dramatically increased the Gross Domestic Product of the United States.
(D) Women, Latinos, and African Americans were often excluded from New Deal programs.
43. What was one major cause of the trends depicted in the graph from 1929 to 1933?
(A) a rise in international trade to an unsustainable level
(B) an economic bubble caused primarily by the high price of homes and agricultural goods
(C) a crisis in banking and financial exchanges
(D) an increase in government spending on social welfare programs
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 16 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
44. The period that immediately preceded the graphs above was defined by
(A) power struggles between the federal government and big businesses
(B) mass consumerism coupled with wage and income growth for many Americans
(C) the creation of new federal agencies to sustain the American economy
(D) new forms of media, expanded rights for minority groups, and a rise in immigration
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 17 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 45-47 refer to the excerpt below.
America cannot afford to spend billions and billions of dollars for unproductive purposes. The world is hungry and
insecure, and the peoples of all lands demand change. President Truman cannot prevent change in the world any more
than he can prevent the tide from coming in or the sun from setting. But once America stands for opposition to change, we
are lost. America will become the most-hated nation in the world….This is America’s opportunity. The peoples of all lands
say to America: Send us plows for our fields instead of tanks and guns to be used against us. The dollars that are spent will
be spent for the production of goods and will come back to us in a thousand different ways. Our programs will be based on
service instead of the outworn ideas of imperialism and power politics.
Henry Wallace, speech in response to the Truman Doctrine, 1947
45. Americans who shared similar views to those expressed in the excerpt most likely would have supported
(A) the end of American aid to poorer countries
(B) the United States’ withdrawal from the United Nations
(C) the creation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)
(D) American assistance to foreign industries and agricultural markets
46. The attitudes of Henry Wallace as depicted in the excerpt are most similar to
(A) John F. Kennedy’s creation of the Peace Corps
(B) George Washington’s stance on neutrality
(C) Woodrow Wilson’s diplomacy based on morality
(D) Warren Harding’s return to isolationism
47. Which of the following developments most directly contributed to the events expressed in the excerpt?
(A) the Soviet Union’s attempt to expel Western democracies from West Berlin
(B) the response of Latin American nations to post-war international agreements
(C) the economic and physical destruction of Europe after World War II
(D) the heightened tensions between American and European farmers
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 18 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Photo by Warren K. Leffler, 1963, Public domain
Questions 48-49 refer to the image above.
48. One primary cause for the historical development depicted in the image was
(A) the disproportionate number of African Americans drafted by the United States military during the early years of the
Vietnam War
(B) the continued presence of state and local laws allowed by the Supreme Court in Plessy v. Ferguson
(C) the federal mandate for the busing of African American students to White-majority school districts
(D) the disapproval of National Guard intervention in states during the early 1960s
49. Which of the following groups would have most likely objected to the development depicted in the image?
(A) elected southern state officials
(B) members of the Chicano movement
(C) officials in the executive branch during the early 1960s
(D) the United States Supreme Court under Chief Justice Earl Warren
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 19 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 50-52 refer to the excerpt below.
Those who would trade our freedom for the soup kitchen of the welfare state have told us that they have a utopian solution
of peace without victory. They call their policy “accommodation.” And they say if we only avoid any direct confrontation
with the enemy, he will forget his evil ways and learn to love us. All who oppose them are indicted as warmongers. They
say we offer simple answers to complex problems. Well, perhaps there is a simple answer-- not an easy answer--but
simple...Admittedly there is a risk in any course we follow other than this, but every lesson in history tells us that the
greater risk lies in appeasement, and this is the specter our well-meaning liberal friends refuse to face--that their policy of
accommodation is appeasement, and it gives no choice between peace and war, only between fight and surrender.
Ronald Reagan, A Time for Choosing Speech, October 1964
50. In the excerpt, Ronald Reagan had the goal of
(A) seeking a peaceful solution to the war in Vietnam
(B) ending President Lyndon B. Johnson’s War on Poverty and Great Society programs
(C) calling for more aggressive policies against communist regimes
(D) advocating for supply-side economics
51. Which of the following would most strongly support Reagan’s point of view in the speech?
(A) Liberal Republicans and Liberal Democrats
(B) Supporters of Black Nationalism
(C) Students for a Democratic Society (SDS)
(D) Advocates for a free, democratic, and united Berlin
52. Which of the following actions made by Reagan during his president most aligns with the ideas expressed in the excerpt?
(A) his goal to pursue a détente foreign policy with the Soviet Union and China
(B) his support for groups such as the Contras in Nicaragua who waged war against communists
(C) his refusal to support federal government spending on social welfare programs or space research
(D) his commitment to fighting drug trafficking the United States
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 20 of 30

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 53-55 refer to the excerpt below.
(Sec. 105) Requires the Director of the U.S. Secret Service to take actions to develop a national network of electronic crime
task forces throughout the United States to prevent, detect, and investigate various forms of electronic crimes, including
potential terrorist attacks against critical infrastructure and financial payment systems.
(Sec. 106) Modifies provisions relating to presidential authority under the International Emergency Powers Act to (1)
authorize the President, when the United States is engaged in armed hostilities or has been attacked by a foreign country
or foreign nationals, to confiscate any property subject to U.S. jurisdiction of a foreign person, organization, or country
that he determines has planned, authorized, aided, or engaged in such hostilities or attacks (the rights to which shall vest in
such agency or person as the President may designate)...
(Sec. 213) Authorizes Federal district courts to allow a delay of required notices of the execution of a warrant if immediate
notice may have an adverse result and under other specified circumstances.
Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required
to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT ACT) Act of 2001, October 23, 2001
53. Which of the following events was LEAST similar to the actions described in the excerpt?
(A) Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer’s pursuit to deport anarchists during the Red Scare
(B) Abraham Lincoln’s suspension of habeas corpus during the Civil War
(C) Thomas Jefferson’s and James Madison’s publications of the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions during the
Adams Administration
(D) Franklin D. Roosevelt’s internment of Japanese Americans after the bombing of Pearl Harbor
54. The federal government’s primary goal in passing the act outlined in the excerpt was most likely to
(A) monitor individuals who were believed to be foreign or domestic threats
(B) confiscate property that was unlawfully taken by potential terrorists
(C) limit Americans’ freedom of speech and protection from unreasonable searches
(D) temporarily discourage immigration from belligerent nations
55. Opponents of the PATRIOT ACT would most likely argue that
(A) state governments, rather than the federal government, should have jurisdiction over the confiscation of individual property
(B) Congress overlooked domestic terrorism when creating this act
(C) the federal government should place national security over personal liberties
(D) the act violates civil liberties guaranteed by the Constitution and Bill of Rights
[CONTINUE TO THE FREE RESPONSE SECTION]
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 21 of 30

PRACTICE EXAM 1
SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS
DIRECTIONS
Answer Question 1 and Question 2. Answer either Question 3 or Question 4.
In your responses, be sure to address all parts of the questions you answer.
Use complete sentences; an outline or bulleted list alone is not acceptable.
Question 1 refers to the excerpts below.
“The Declaration of Independence represents the colonists’ deepest fears and beliefs. The colonists believed they saw a
clear pattern in the events that followed 1763. They believed they saw an evil and deliberate conspiracy to crush liberty in
America...They also believed that America was destined to play a special role in history. They believed that America would
become “the foundation of a great and mighty empire, the largest the world ever saw to be founded on such principles of
liberty and freedom, both civil and religious.” The colonists believed that England was trying to enslave them, and that they
should use “all the power which God has given them” to protect themselves.”
Bernard Bailyn, The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution, 1967
“It seemed clear to the educated, upper-class colonists that something needed to be done to persuade the lower class to join
the revolutionary cause, to direct their anger against England. The solution was to find language inspiring to all classes,
specific enough in its listing of grievances to fill people with anger against the British, vague enough to avoid class conflict,
and stirring enough to build patriotic feelings. Everything the Declaration of Independence was about—popular control
over governments, the right of rebellion and revolution, fury at political tyranny, economic burdens, and military attacks—
was well suited to unite large numbers of colonists and persuade even those who had grievances against one another to
turn against England.”
Howard Zinn, A People’s History of the United States, 1980
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 22 of 30

Section I, Part B | Short Answer Questions
1. Using the excerpts from the previous page, answer (a), (b), and (c).
(a) Briefly describe ONE major difference between Bailyn’s and Zinn’s historical interpretations of the motivations behind the
Declaration of Independence.
(b) Briefly explain how ONE specific historical event or development from the period 1675-1776 that is not explicitly mentioned
in the excerpts could be used to support Bailyn’s argument.
(c) Briefly explain how ONE specific historical event or development from the period 1675-1776 that is not explicitly mentioned
in the excerpts could be used to support Zinn’s argument.
Question 2 refers to the image below.
Currier and Ives, “The Progress of the Century” Lithograph, 1876
2. Using the image above, answer (a), (b), and (c).
(a) Describe ONE cause of the situation depicted in the image from the period 1790 to 1890.
(b) Describe ONE effect of the situation depicted in the image from the period 1790 to 1890.
(c) Describe a second effect of the situation depicted in the image from the period 1790 to 1890.
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 23 of 30

Section I, Part B | Short Answer Questions
Answer either Question 3 or Question 4.
3. Answer (a), (b), and (c).
(a) Briefly describe ONE political continuity in the lives of Native Americans from 1607 to 1763.
(b) Briefly describe ONE social continuity in the lives of Native Americans from 1607 to 1763.
(c) Briefly describe ONE political OR social change in the lives of Native Americans from 1607 to 1763.
4. Answer (a), (b), and (c).
(a) Briefly describe ONE political continuity in the lives of African Americans from 1857 to 1919.
(b) Briefly describe ONE social continuity in the lives of African Americans from 1857 to 1919.
(c) Briefly describe ONE political OR social change in the lives of African Americans from 1857 to 1919.
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 24 of 30

PRACTICE EXAM 1
DOCUMENT-BASED QUESTION
DIRECTIONS
Suggested reading and writing time: 1 hour
It is suggested that you spend 15 minutes reading the documents and 45 minutes writing your response.
Note: You may begin writing your response before the reading period is over.
Question 1 is based on the accompanying documents. The documents have been edited for the purpose of this exercise.
In your response you should do the following:
• Respond to the prompt with a historically defensible thesis or claim that establishes a line of reasoning.
• Describe a broader historical context relevant to the prompt.
• Support an argument in response to the prompt using at least four documents.
• Use at least one additional piece of specific historical evidence (beyond that found in the documents) relevant to an
argument about the prompt.
• For at least two documents, explain how or why the document’s point of view, purpose, historical situation, and/or
audience is relevant to an argument.
• Use evidence to corroborate, qualify, or modify an argument that addresses the prompt.
Question 1: Evaluate the extent to which the role of women in the United States changed from 1890 to 1955.
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 25 of 30

Section II | Document-Based Question
Document 1
New York Press, I wonder if it’s really becoming? Library of Congress, 1897-1911
Document 2
“The women worked as ammunition testers, switchboard operators, stock takers. They went into every kind of factory devoted
to the production of war materials, from the most dangerous posts in munition plants to the delicate sewing in aeroplane
factories.”
Alice Dunbar Nelson, American Poet and Civil Rights Activist,
on African American women’s efforts during the war, 1918
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 26 of 30

Section II | Document-Based Question
Document 3
Document 4
“Little Lady Flapper is really old-fashioned; but in her efforts not to let anyone discover that her true ideal is love-in-a-cottage,
she ‘flaps’ in the most desperately modern manner...She likes her freedom and she likes to be a bit daring, and snap her
cunning, little manicured fingers in the face of the world; but fundamental she is the same sort of girl as grandmamma was
when she was young. The chief difference is that she has more ambition, and there are more things for her to wish for, and a
greater chance of getting them. She demands more of men because she knows more about their work...The flapper has charm,
good looks, good clothes, intellect, and a healthy point of view. I’m proud to ‘flap’-I am!”
“Flappers Here to Stay, Says Colleen Moore” by Gladys Hall Metropolitan Newspaper Service, New York 1922
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 27 of 30

Section II | Document-Based Question
Document 5
All women should receive instruction in the art of homemaking as a matter of course... But it should be equally understood
that many will wish to earn their living in productive work outside the home…
...Professional women generally miss the homemaking activities of their married sisters and regret the incompleteness of their
personal experience. They admit the richest life includes the normal family relationships, and I have often been touched with
the sense of defeat of highly successful women who have missed the privileges of motherhood...On the other hand, there is
possibly just as much regret...of married women who find themselves on the shelf all too soon and unable to participate in the
many outside activities for which they feel themselves amply prepared. Educated women insist on using their training, and
apparently many of them find that a confining marriage limits their activity and intellectual growth….
From the point of view of the community also, the choice of one of these alternatives as against the other involves serious
losses. Society demands mothers and happy families. When, therefore, women of leadership and of ability either do not marry
or, when married, have few, if any, children, society is the loser. No community can afford to do without the children of able,
well educated women. These women also set the fashion for many others. On the other hand, the community loses in valuable
service when abilities that are available in married women are not utilized. When women have been prepared for professional
life and for important social service and fall out of the active world when they marry, there are serious losses. The valuable
services which such women can render must not be scrapped...
Homemaking and Careers, LOUIS L. DUBLIN, The Atlantic, September 1926
Document 6
While other girls attend their favorite cocktail bar ...Rosie’s got a boyfriend, Charlie.
Sipping Martinis, munching caviar. Charlie, he’s a Marine.
There’s a girl who’s really putting them to shame, Rosie is protecting Charlie,
Rosie is her name... Working overtime
On the riveting machine…
All the day long whether rain or shine,
She’s a part of the assembly line. ...Rosie’s buys a lot of war bonds,
She’s making history, That girl really has sense,
Working for victory, Wishes she could purchase more bonds,
Rosie the Riveter… Putting all her cash
Into national defense.
Excerpts from “Rosie the Riveter” song by Redd Evans and John Jacob Loeb (1943)
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 28 of 30

Section II | Document-Based Question
Document 7
• Have dinner ready. Plan ahead, even the night before, to have a delicious meal ready on time for his return. This is a way of
letting him know that you have been thinking about him and are concerned about his needs. Most men are hungry when
they get home and the prospect of a good meal is part of the warm welcome needed.
• Prepare yourself. Take 15 minutes to rest so you’ll be refreshed when he arrives. Touch up your make-up, put a ribbon in
your hair and be fresh-looking. He has just been with a lot of work-weary people..
• Clear away the clutter. Make one last trip through the main part of the house just before your husband arrives. Run a
dustcloth over the tables.
• During the cooler months of the year you should prepare and light a fire for him to unwind by. Your husband will feel he
has reached a haven of rest and order, and it will give you a lift too. After all, catering to his comfort will provide you with
immense personal satisfaction.
• Minimize all noise. At the time of his arrival, eliminate all noise of the washer, dryer or vacuum. Encourage the children to
be quiet.
• Greet him with a warm smile and show sincerity in your desire to please him.
Housekeeping Monthly, 13 May, 1955
AP® United States History Practice Exam 1
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 29 of 30

PRACTICE EXAM 1
LONG ESSAY QUESTION
DIRECTIONS
Answer Question 2 or Question 3 or Question 4
Suggested writing time: 40 minutes
In your response you should do the following.
• Respond to the prompt with a historically defensible thesis or claim that establishes a line of reasoning.
• Describe a broader historical context relevant to the prompt.
• Support an argument in response to the prompt using specific and relevant examples of evidence.
• Use historical reasoning (e.g., comparison, causation, continuity or change over time) to frame or structure an argument
that addresses the prompt.
• Use evidence to corroborate, qualify, or modify an argument that addresses the prompt.
Question 2: Evaluate the relative importance of the different causes for British colonization and settlement in North America
from 1607-1754.
Question 3: Evaluate the relative importance of the different causes for westward expansion from 1783-1850.
Question 4: Evaluate the relative importance of the different causes for American imperialism from 1865-1912.
[STOP END OF EXAM]
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 30 of 30

