PRACTICE EXAM 2
MULTIPLE CHOICE QUESTIONS
DIRECTIONS
Time: 55 minutes
55 Questions
Each of the questions or incomplete statements is followed by
four suggested answers or completions. Select the one that is best in each case.
Source materials have been edited for the purpose of this exercise.
Questions 1-3 refer to the excerpt below.
In the island, which I have said before was called Hispana, there are very lofty and beautiful mountains, great farms, groves
and fields, most fertile both for cultivation and for pasturage, and well adapted for constructing buildings…The inhabitants
. . . are all, as I said before, unprovided with any sort of iron, and they are destitute of arms, which are entirely unknown
to them, and for which they are not adapted; not on account of any bodily deformity, for they are well made, but because
they are timid and full of terror…They would make fine servants…With fifty men we could subjugate them all and make
them do whatever we want…I gave them many beautiful and pleasing things, which I had brought with me, for no return
whatever, in order to win their affection, and that they might become Christians….
Christopher Columbus Reports on his first voyage, 1453
1. Columbus’ description of Native Americans largely fails to recognize the fact that
(A) Native American populations had access to steel weapons
(B) Native American populations developed distinct and increasingly complex societies in response to diverse environments
(C) Native American populations were immune to diseases that would diminish European explorers
(D) Native American populations had understandings of land ownership that were very similar to those of Europeans
2. The attitudes toward natives expressed in the excerpt led most directly to
(A) A sense of mutual understanding between Europeans and indigenous populations
(B) The introduction of new crops that would transform native diets
(C) The implementation of the encomienda system to organize and regulate Native American labor
(D) The passage of laws to ban marriages between Europeans and Native Americans
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 1 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
3. Which of the following undermined Columbus’ stated intentions regarding Native Americans?
(A) Native Americans successfully resisted European encroachment
(B) Native Americans adopted certain aspects of European culture
(C) Native Americans were sometimes open to trade in order to obtain items of value or utility
(D) Native Americans were vulnerable to European diseases that devastated Native American populations
Questions 4-7 refer to the excerpt below.
“Before they turned against George III, the American colonies had been very loyal and royal, marking monarchs’
birthdays, accessions and coronations from Massachusetts to the Carolinas….But…this unified, interconnected,
hierarchical picture of their empire was never more than a partial image of how things were…In the American colonies,
some lamented that the British social structure had not been fully replicated, and that there was no ‘native aristocracy’,
while others insisted that the cult of freedom and independence meant the colonies were ‘adverse to subordination’ in
any out-modeled old world hierarchy‒the view that finally prevailed after 1776…Not surprisingly, then, the metropolitan
efforts to complete this British imperial hierarchy at the centre and to export it abroad, so as to forge ‘an entire interactive
system,’ were never a complete success. The American colonists eventually rejected the entire thing outright…The
elaborate, layered social ordering of the American colonies was, at the mid eighteenth century, a relatively recent
development.”
David Cannadine, Ornamentalism: How the British Saw Their Empire, 2002
4. Which of the following best summarizes the author’s argument in the passage?
(A) The colonists wanted to replicate the British social structure with a formal aristocracy to serve as the ruling class
(B) The colonies experienced anglicization as they grew, but over time the goals and interests of European leaders and colonists
started to diverge
(C) English ideas about religion and governance spread to the colonies and were duplicated
(D) Until 1776, the colonists considered themselves subordinates to the British government who were virtually represented in
Parliament
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 2 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
5. The author’s reference to the “layered social ordering of the American colonies” most likely refers to which of the following
developments in the American colonies
(A) The colonies were religiously more diverse than England
(B) While the colonies did not have formal titles of nobility, they did have a social hierarchy that reflected the colonies’
demographic and economic diversity
(C) Many of the colonists intermarried with Native Americans, leading to the development of a caste system to define the status of
the diverse population
(D) In order to promote equality, the colonists developed self-governing institutions in which all men could participate
6. The author’s reference of British attempts “to forge an entire interactive system” alludes to which of the following developments in
the relationship between the colonists and the British by the mid 18th century?
(A) As the colonists became more self-sufficient, their dependence on trade with England decreased
(B) As the colonists created governments based on English models, the British granted greater degrees of self-governance to the
colonists to regulate trade and relations with Native Americans
(C) In the aftermath of the French and Indian War, the British attempted to exert tighter control over the colonies by enforcing the
Navigation Acts
(D) As British defense of the colonies became more costly, they abandoned strict mercantilist policies that were expensive to
enforce
7. Based on the passage, which of the following historical developments best explains the colonists’ ideological resistance to British
policies leading up to 1776?
(A) The spread of Enlightenment ideas of social organization and liberty helped colonists develop their own understandings of
how they fit in the British Empire
(B) Increased interactions with Britain’s other imperial colonies introduced colonists to other notions of social ordering.
(C) Experiences of corruption in self-government created a desire for administrative reforms
(D) Dissatisfaction with imperial efforts to consolidate control over the colonies led most colonists to demand immediate
independence from Britain in order to forge a separate American identity
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 3 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 8-11 refer to the excerpt below.
That your Petitioners apprehend that they have, in common with all other Men, a natural and unalienable right to that
freedom…But they were unjustly dragged, by the cruel hand of Power…in Violation of the Laws of Nature and of Nation
and in defiance of all the tender feelings of humanity, brought hither to be sold like Beasts of Burden, and like them
condemned to slavery for Life…
Your Petitioners…can not but express their astonishment, that it has never been considered, that every principle from
which America has acted in the course of her unhappy difficulties with Great-Britain, pleads stronger than a thousand
arguments in favor of your Petitioners.
“The Petition of a Great Number of Negroes” to the Massachusetts House of Representatives, January 13, 1777
8. The sentiments expressed in this passage most directly reflected a growing belief that
(A) All people, regardless of enslaved status, should be counted for the purpose of determining representation in Congress
(B) Enslaved people should be taught to read and write so they have more marketable skills
(C) Slavery was justifiable only as punishment for a crime
(D) Slavery was inconsistent with the belief that “all men are created equal”
9. This document is best understood in the context of
(A) The signing of the Declaration of Independence
(B) The aftermath of the Boston Massacre
(C) The colonial response to the establishment of new taxes by the British Parliament
(D) The firing of the first shots at Lexington and Concord
10. A historian would most likely use this passage to illustrate which of the following?
(A) The use of religion as a justification for slavery
(B) The influence of Enlightenment ideas in the American Revolution
(C) The efforts to secure an alliance with France during the American Revolution
(D) The impact that the ideals of the American Revolution had on independence movements in Latin America
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 4 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
11. The ideas expressed in the passage contributed to which of the following developments in the revolutionary period?
(A) The formation of Committees of Correspondence to coordination opposition to British policies
(B) The decision not to allow black troops to fight in the American Revolution
(C) The gradual abolition of slavery in northern states after the American Revolution
(D) The growing belief that the rights of the individual justified declaring independence from Great Britain
Questions 12-15 refer to the excerpt below.
“In framing a government which is to be administered by men over men, the great difficulty lies in this: you must first
enable the government to control the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control itself . . . In the compound
republic of America, the power surrendered by the people is first divided between two distinct governments, and then the
portion allotted to each subdivided among distinct and separate departments. Hence a double security arises to the rights
of the people. The different governments will control each other, at the same time that each will be controlled by itself.
…It is of great importance in a republic…to guard one part of the society against the injustice of the other part…If a
majority be united by a common interest, the rights of the minority will be insecure…In the extended republic of the
United States, and among the great variety of interests, parties, and sects, which it embraces, a coalition of a majority of the
whole society could seldom take place upon any other principles, than those of justice and the general good…The larger
the society…the more duly capable it will be of self-government. And happily for the republican cause, the practicable
sphere may be carried to a very great extent, by a judicious modification and mixture of the federal principle.”
James Madison, Federalist No. 51, February 1788
12. The ideas expressed in the passage emerged most directly from a larger debate over which of the following?
(A) The decision to declare independence from Britain
(B) The nature of the government’s relationship with American Indian tribes after the American Revolution
(C) The proper form of government for the newly independent states
(D) The constitutionality of tariffs to protect American manufacturing after the American Revolution
13. Which of the following best summarizes the argument made in the first paragraph?
(A) The federal government should not be trusted with broad powers because it would infringe on the rights of citizens
(B) The system of separation of powers in the Constitution would help safeguard the natural rights of the people
(C) People should not have to give up certain rights in order to form a government
(D) In a federal system of government, states will not be able to keep the central government in check
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 5 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
14. Based on the argument made in the second paragraph, with which statement would the author most likely agree?
(A) In a well-designed system of government, the majority will submit to a government that protects the weak because one day
they themselves may disagree with the majority.
(B) In a republican government, the interests of the majority will overshadow the interests of the minority, causing anarchy
(C) In order to ensure that individual rights are protected, the Constitution must include a list of essential rights
(D) In forming a government intended to last far into the future, great care must be taken to limit and clearly define its powers.
15. Which later event in American history would best serve as a challenge to the assertions made by the author in the second
paragraph?
(A) The division between Federalists and Republicans in the lead up to the War of 1812.
(B) The passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1965.
(C) The outbreak of the Civil War after southern states seceded from the Union.
(D) The passage of anti-trust legislation in the late 19th century.
Questions 16-18 refer to the excerpt below.
“By 1815, however, a market revolution was surmounting the overland transportation barrier. While dissolving deeply
rooted patterns of behavior and belief for competitive effort, it mobilized collective resources through government to fuel
growth in countless ways, not least by providing the essential legal, financial, and transport infrastructures. Establishing
capitalist hegemony [dominance] over economy, politics, and culture, the market revolution created ourselves and most of
the world we know. The stressed and resistant Jacksonian majority…despite contradictions of patriarchy, racism, and fee-
simple property…rallied around enduring human values of family, trust, cooperation, love, and equality.
…Commercial boom made government promotion of economic growth the central dynamic of American politics…Thus
the clashing perspectives of land and market focused early American politics on three tightly linked questions: 1. How
democratic—how responsive to popular majorities—would government be? 2. Would government power be extensive
and concentrated at the federal level or limited and diffused among the states? 3. To what extent and in what ways would
government promote economic growth?”
Charles Sellers, The Market Revolution: Jacksonian America: 1815-1846, Oxford: 1991
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 6 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
16. Which of the following best explains Sellers’ argument about America in the early 19th century?
(A) In response to the rapidly changing US economy, the Democratic Party formed as a champion of the common people while
continuing to support slavery and the displacement of Indigenous Americans.
(B) Despite an expansion of the US economy, gender and family roles changed little because few Americans participated in the
market economy
(C) New political parties formed in response to America’s involvement in the War of 1812 and America’s involvement in foreign
affairs
(D) The Era of Good Feelings emerged as a time of consensus in politics because America was linked together in a common
economic and transportation system
17. Sellers’ description of the changes in American society and politics during the early nineteenth century are best understood in the
context of which of the following?
(A) The emergence of a national culture
(B) The Second Great Awakening
(C) The expansion of a market economy
(D) The emergence of a one party system
18. Which of the following developments in the early 19th century best supports Sellers’ claim that “commercial boom made
government promotion of economic growth the central dynamic of American politics?”
(A) President Monroe’s issuance of the Monroe Doctrine
(B) The growth of the abolitionist movement
(C) The appeal of the Transcendentalist Movement
(D) Henry Clay’s promotion of the American System
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 7 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 19-21 refer to the excerpt below.
“...The Missouri question…like a fire bell in the night, awakened and filled me with terror. I considered it at once as the
knell of the Union…a geographical line, coinciding with a marked principle, moral and political, once conceived and held
up to the angry passions of men, will never be obliterated; and every new irritation will mark it deeper and deeper.
…To regulate the condition of the different descriptions of men composing a state–this certainly is the exclusive right of
every state, which nothing in the constitution has taken from them and given to the general government…I regret that I
am now to die in the belief that the useless sacrifice of themselves, by the generation of ‘76, to acquire self-government and
happiness to their country, is to be thrown away by the unwise and unworthy passions of their sons…
Thomas Jefferson, Letter to John Holmes, April 22, 1820
19. The author’s perspective expressed in the excerpt is best understood in the context of which of the following historical
developments in the early 19th century?
(A) Plans to further unify the U.S. economy generated debates over whether such policies would benefit agriculture or industry,
potentially favoring different sections of the country
(B) Congressional attempts at political compromise only temporarily stemmed growing tensions between opponents and
defenders of slavery
(C) National interests continued to trump regional interests as leaders sought to avoid sectional crises
(D) The Supreme Court had the final say in interpreting and determining the meaning of the Constitution
20. The author’s assertion about “the exclusive right of every state” was later used by Democrats to
(A) Justify the enforcement of the Fugitive Slave Law
(B) Oppose federal attempts to regulate slavery
(C) Recharter the national bank
(D) Oppose the Kansas-Nebraska Act
21. Each “new irritation” referenced in the excerpt most directly reflected which of the following developments?
(A) A deepening division between plantation owners and small farmers in the South
(B) The growth of new religious denominations aligned with certain regions of the country
(C) The increasing rivalry between Democrats and Whigs over social and economic reform
(D) The growing divide between North and South as the country expanded westward
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 8 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 22-25 refer to the image below.
“The Hercules of the Union, Slaying the Great Dragon of Secession,” Currier & Ives,
New York, 1861. General Winfield Scott beats back the hydra of secession with his
Liberty and Union club. The faces on the serpent are of major Confederate leaders, each
labeled with his alleged crime (treason, robbery, extortion, piracy, etc).
22. Which of the following most directly contributed to the circumstances depicted in the image
(A) The Compromise of 1850
(B) The Republican Party’s promise to abolish slavery
(C) The Kansas-Nebraska Act
(D) The election of Abraham Lincoln to the presidency
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 9 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
23. Which of the following best describes the goal of the Union at the beginning of the conflict alluded to in the image?
(A) The Union’s ultimate goal was to abolish slavery in order to truly create “a more perfect union” that would be an example to
other countries
(B) The Union’s ultimate goal was to reunite the country before the war turned into an international conflict
(C) The Union’s ultimate goal was to abolish slavery in the border states so their economies would be more similar to that of the
North
(D) The Union’s ultimate goal was to confiscate enslaved people from the South in order to use them in the army
24. The cartoon was most likely produced in order to
(A) Justify armed warfare against fellow countrymen
(B) Justify Lincoln’s signing of the Emancipation Proclamation
(C) Convince the border states to remain neutral
(D) Convince the British to boycott southern cotton
25. Which of the following most undermined Southern justifications for secession
(A) Southerners compared their situation to the situation the colonies faced when declaring independence from Great Britain
(B) Southerners claimed they were fundamentally different from Northerners
(C) Southerners admitted that a system of free labor was preferable to slave labor
(D) Southerners were ultimately fighting a war to maintain slavery at a time when many European nations had abolished slavery
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 10 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 26-28 refer to the excerpt below.
“…Now this mass of persons who vote is divided into two parties—Republican and Democrat…The whole of the public
offices of a city (with the exception of a very few where special technical skill is required) are short-term offices distributed
according to “political” leanings.
…Every big city here holds at least one big foreign vote—generally Irish, frequently German…Today the city of San
Francisco is governed by the Irish vote and the Irish influence, under the rule of a gentleman…He is called officially “Boss
Buckley,”…a saloon keeper and party boss of the Democratic Party in San Francisco]...Contracts for road-mending, public
buildings, and the like are under the control of Boss Buckley, because the men who Buckley’s following sent to the City
Council adjudicate on these contracts; and on each and every one of these contracts Boss Buckley levies his percentage for
himself and his allies.”
Activist and attorney Wendell Phillips, editorial on the Pacific Railroad, published in The New York Times, 1869
26. The excerpt best illustrates which of the following developments in the late 19th century?
(A) Debates over the assimilation of newly arrived immigrants
(B) The growing popularity of Social Darwinism as a justification for inequality
(C) The development of machine politics in urban areas
(D) The growth of political parties that disagreed over the government’s role in the economy
27. The situation discussed in the excerpt contributed to which of the following changes in the late 19th century?
(A) Various groups pushed for a wide varieties of reforms to address corruption and citizenship
(B) Business leaders sought increased profits by consolidating corporations into large trusts
(C) Cities attracted a growing number of immigrants looking for economic and social opportunities
(D) The Populist Party included demands for a national currency backed by silver in their party platform
28. A proponent of the situation described in paragraph two would most likely agree with which of the following statements?
(A) Providing assistance to those in need will only weaken society because it encourages the survival of those “less fit” to compete
(B) The government should take a laissez-faire approach to the economy and allow supply and demand to guide economic growth
(C) Powerful urban political organizations undermine democracy by corrupting local elections
(D) By providing patronage and social services, political organizations benefited the public
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 11 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 29-31 refer to the excerpt below.
“The telegraph tells us that the Indians have begun to tear up the rails, to shoot passengers and conductors on this road.
We see great good in this. At last the poor victim has found the vulnerable spot in his tyrant…Some men may think us
needlessly aggressive. No, citizenship, they may say, would be a better remedy…At present citizenship means little. Heaven
forbid we should betray the Indian to such protection as “citizenship” gives to the Georgia Black and loyalist. No, we are
thankful the Indian has one defense that the Black Man never had. He is no citizen and has the right to make war. Well
may he use that last right, and never yield it till “citizenship” means more than it does now.”
Activist and attorney Wendell Phillips, editorial on the Pacific Railroad, published in The New York Times, 1869
29. The perspective expressed in the excerpt is best understood as a response to which of the following historical developments in the
second half of the 19th century?
(A) The building of transcontinental railroads that allowed larger numbers of migrants to move to the West in search of land and
economic opportunity
(B) The spread of the Ghost Dance Movement as a way to end westward expansion and bring peace to indigenous tribes in the
West
(C) The continued reliance on sharecropping and tenant farming in the South
(D) The organization of farmers into local and regional cooperative organizations in order to oppose the increasing costs to
transport their goods on railroads
30. Which of the following best serves as evidence for the claim that “at present citizenship means little.”
(A) The Supreme Court decision in Plessy v. Ferguson upheld the constitutionality of “separate but equal”
(B) Until the late 19th century, the US government pursued a policy of restricting members of indigenous tribes to reservations
(C) Some immigrants chose to assimilate to a certain extent by changing their names or speaking English
(D) The Exoduster movement saw the formation of African American communities on the western frontier that allowed for
upward mobility and entrepreneurship
31. The situation described in the excerpt most immediately led to which of the following developments?
(A) The US government passed the Homestead Act to encourage small farmers and families to settle in the West
(B) The US government passed the Dawes Act to end the reservation system and force assimilation and subsistence farming
(C) After suffering several military defeats, the US government signed treaties with American Indians to set clear terms for
settlement
(D) The US government closed Indian Boarding Schools in response to calls of corruption and mismanagement
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 12 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 32-35 refer to the excerpt below.
“…To those of the white race who look to the incoming of those of foreign birth and strange tongue and habits of the
prosperity of the South, were I permitted I would repeat what I say to my own race: “Cast down your bucket where you
are.” …Casting down your bucket among my people…you will find that they will buy your surplus land, make blossom the
waste places in your fields, and run your factories…While doing this, you can be sure in the future…we shall stand by you
with a devotion that no foreigner can approach…
…The wisest among my race understand that the agitation of questions of social equality is the extremest folly
[foolishness], and that progress in the enjoyment of all the privileges that will come to us must be the result of severe
and constant struggle rather than of artificial forcing…It is important and right that all privileges of the law be ours, but
it is vastly more important that we be prepared for the exercises of these privileges. The opportunity to earn a dollar in a
factory just now is worth infinitely more than the opportunity to spend a dollar in an opera-house.”
Booker T. Washington, “Atlanta Compromise” speech at the Cotton States and International Exposition in Atlanta in 1895
32. The remarks in the excerpt were most likely given in response to which of the following developments in the late 19th century?
(A) The passage of legislation restricting immigration
(B) The increase in child labor as industrial capitalism expanded
(C) The worsening of race relations after Reconstruction
(D) The rise of nativist sentiments
33. The author’s argument reflects which of the following characteristics of the Progressive movement?
(A) Some Progressives called for greater reliance on professional and technical experts to make government more efficient
(B) Some Progressives advocated political reforms to make the government more responsive
(C) Some Progressives were divided over issues like immigration and segregation
(D) Some Progressives sought federal legislation to expand democracy to all members of society
34. The author’s assertion that progress will come as a “result of severe and constant struggle rather than of artificial forcing” reflects
the belief that
(A) The United States government must act to bring an end to Jim Crow policies
(B) African Americans should work hard and earn respect in order to gain respect and citizenship among whites
(C) In order to truly industrialize like the North, the South must open its economy to black and immigrant labor and
entrepreneurship
(D) Reformers of all races must attack racism at both the national and local level
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 13 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
35. The context surrounding the argument expressed in the excerpt was most similar to which of the following later developments?
(A) The belief in liberalism to bring an end to poverty and discrimination
(B) The passage of the Immigration Act of 1965
(C) Debates among civil rights activists over the efficacy of nonviolence during the 1960s and 1970s
(D) The government’s use of the Brown v Board of Education ruling to promote racial equality
Questions 36-39 refer to the image below.
“School Begins,” Puck, January 25, 1899. Uncle Sam lectures his new students: the Philippines, Hawaii, Puerto Rico,
and Cuba in a classroom of past and potentially future U.S. acquisitions.
36. The ideas expressed in the cartoon are most directly understood in the context of which of the following developments in the late
19th and early 20th centuries?
(A) opposition to the United States’ decision to join the League of Nations
(B) the fear of increased militarism among European and Pacific powers
(C) the recruitment of foreign laborers for US industries
(D) debates about the United States’ role in the world
37. Which of the following most directly led to the circumstances illustrated by the image
(A) The United States’ victory in the Spanish-American War
(B) The Supreme Court ruling in Plessy v. Ferguson
(C) The United States’ contributions to the Allied victory in the First World War
(D) The completion of the Panama Canal
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 14 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
38. Based on the cartoon, which of the following was a common justification used by proponents of imperialism?
(A) The United States must acquire colonies in order to prevent nationalist movements that would threaten US supremacy
(B) The United States must acquire colonies because the western frontier had already been conquered and settled
(C) The United States must acquire colonies to spread American values and democracy
(D) The United States must acquire colonies to deter European expansion in Latin America
39. The perspective expressed in the cartoon most immediately led to
(A) The United States’ decision to declare war on Spain in order to free the people of Cuba and the Philippines
(B) The decision in the Insular Cases that constitutional rights do not automatically extend to places under American control
(C) The assertion in the Roosevelt Corollary that the United States had the right to preserve order in the Western
Hemisphere
(D) The passage of immigration quotas and literacy tests to restrict immigration to the United States
Questions 40-43 refer to the excerpt below.
“We need not overemphasize imperfections in the Peace of Versailles. We need not harp on the failure of the democracies
to deal with problems of world reconstruction…Let us say to the democracies: ‘We Americans are vitally concerned in
your defense of freedom. We are putting forth our energies, our resources and our organizing powers to give you the
strength to regain and maintain a free world…’…In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a
world founded upon four essential human freedoms.
The first is freedom of speech and expression…The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way…
The third is freedom from want--which…means economic understandings which will secure to every nation a healthy
peacetime life for its inhabitants-everywhere in the world…The fourth is freedom from fear--that no nation will be in a
position to commit an act of physical aggression against any neighbor--anywhere in the world.
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Franklin Roosevelt’s Annual Address to Congress - The “Four Freedoms,”
January 6, 1941
40. Which of the following best explains the United States’ role in the “imperfections of the Peace of Versailles?”
(A) President Wilson pushed to severely punish Germany following WWI
(B) The United States failed to ratify the treaty and join the League of Nations
(C) The United States played only a minor role in WWI, so it did not have input in the postwar peace plans
(D) The United States was completely indifferent to the aggression of Nazi Germany in the 1930s
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 15 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
41. Roosevelt’s arguments in the excerpt most closely parallel arguments made during which of the following earlier developments?
(A) The United States’ decision to annex Hawaii
(B) The United States’ decision to annex Texas
(C) The United States’ decision to enter WWI
(D) The United States’ decision to pursue greater influence in Asia
42. Roosevelt’s call for the US to put “forth our energies, our resources and our organizing powers…to regain and maintain a free
world” had which of the following effect
(A) War mobilization provided opportunities for women and minorities to temporarily improve their socioeconomic positions
(B) In an effort to mobilize for war, the US borrowed heavily and drove up the national debt, worsening the Great Depression
(C) Congress passed legislation preventing the US from providing war materials to belligerent nations
(D) Migration to the United States decreased as economic opportunities were reserved for American citizens
43. Which of the following developments in the 1940s most undermined Roosevelt’s argument in the second paragraph?
(A) Roosevelt’s New Deal policies were overturned, ending economic security for many Americans
(B) Opportunities for military service were not open to women and minorities
(C) The United States government suspended the civil liberties of Japanese-Americans
(D) The United States government granted defense contracts with major US corporations like Ford
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 16 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 44-46 refer to the graph below.
Expenditure shares for non-necessities* for the United States, New York City, and Boston
*Non-necessities are non-essential purchases such as vacations, entertainment, clothing, dining out, etc.
44. The trend seen in the graph from the 1930s to the 1980s is best understood in the context of which of the following developments?
(A) Reduced government spending
(B) Mass migrations of African Americans to the South
(C) An influx of immigrants to major cities
(D) Technological and industrial growth
45. The trend seen in the graph after 1950 most immediately led to
(A) Passage of the GI Bill of Rights
(B) Elimination of poverty and welfare programs
(C) Migration to suburbs and Sun Belt regions
(D) Declining social mobility
46. Which of the following represents a continuity between the 1930s and the 1960s
(A) The government expanded the federal highway system to promote the travel industry
(B) The government created federal programs to address economic and social problems
(C) The government took aggressive steps to limit immigration to safeguard American jobs
(D) The government passed legislation to outlaw informal segregation in suburban area
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 17 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 47-49 refer to the graph below.
Public Trust in the Government, Pew Research Center.
47. Which of the following developments best explains the trend depicted in the graph from 1958 to 1964?
(A) General support for liberal economic and foreign policy decisions
(B) Growing discontent over the slow pace of desegregation after the Brown v Board of Education decision
(C) The growth of the early Counterculture movement
(D) Declining support for government led attempts to expose suspected Communists
48. Which of the following developments best explains the trend seen in the graph from 1964 to 1978?
(A) A period of economic prosperity and low unemployment
(B) Declining support for the civil rights movement
(C) Passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965
(D) A series of political scandals in the federal government
49. The trend seen in the graph after 1964 most directly contributed to which of the following political changes?
(A) The growth of conservatism
(B) The rise of liberalism in the Republican Party
(C) A rise in conflicts between business leaders and labor activists
(D) The growth of the environmental movement
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 18 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 50-52 refer to the excerpt below.
“[World War II] cast America onto the world stage as a mighty economic and military giant…Democrats and Republicans
celebrated American democracy and capitalism; they agreed there were no fundamental problems with American society,
and that any problems that did exist could be solved by incremental reform…
…[9/11] was a time of national shock parallel to that which occurred after the attacks on Pearl Harbor in 1941. Everyone
was united, including allies around the globe. But unlike the aftermath of Pearl Harbor, the American people were not
asked to engage in common sacrifice. Instead of people paying more taxes for a strengthened military, tax rates were cut,
especially for the rich and powerful.”
William H. Chafe, “America: 1945 to the Present,” published by the Gilder Lehrman Institute of American History, 2009
50. The argument made in the first paragraph reflected a growing belief after 1945 that
(A) Direct military conflict was the only way to fight communism
(B) The government was best equipped to address social and economic issues
(C) The 14th and 15 Amendments had finally fulfilled Reconstruction promises of equality
(D) The power of the federal government should be limited
51. The author’s claim at the end of the second paragraph best reflects which of the following changes in the role of the federal
government?
(A) The negotiation of more favorable free trade agreements
(B) The decision to cut or reform welfare and other social programs
(C) The desire to use the federal government to promote certain moral values
(D) The belief that the president should not shape foreign policy
52. Which of the following best describes a continuity between Cold War America and post-Cold War America?
(A) The US military avoided proxy wars and instead relied on threats of nuclear war
(B) US policy makers promoted America as a defender against threats to the world order
(C) The US government enjoyed broad public support for foreign policy decisions
(D) America was no longer seen as a leading global power
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 19 of 28

Section I, Part A | Multiple Choice Questions
Questions 53-55 refer to the graph below.
53. Which of the following developments best explains the change in immigration depicted in the graph?
(A) New immigration laws restricted immigration from Asia
(B) Cold War conflicts drastically increased immigration
(C) New immigration laws opened immigration to demographic groups outside of Northwest Europe
(D) Decolonization movements reduced immigration as new states became democracies
54. Which of the following statements best describes how immigration to the United States changed from the early to the late 20th
century?
(A) By the late 20th century, immigration was no longer viewed as a political issue
(B) The growing influence of conservatism proposed that the government should take a limited role in regulating immigration
(C) By the late 20th century, popular opinion had turned against earlier quota systems that were perceived as nativist
(D) In the early 20th century, immigrants came to the United States for political rather than economic reasons
55. Which of the following best explains how changes in immigration after 1960 impacted the United States?
(A) The Sunbelt no longer played an important role in American politics
(B) Unemployment rose for American citizens in the manufacturing industry
(C) Urban reformers opened settlement houses to encourage assimilation
(D) Americans adopted aspects of Latin American and Asian culture
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s HistoryTM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 20 of 28

PRACTICE EXAM 1
SHORT ANSWER QUESTIONS
DIRECTIONS
Answer Question 1 and Question 2. Answer either Question 3 or Question 4.
In your responses, be sure to address all parts of the questions you answer.
Use complete sentences; an outline or bulleted list alone is not acceptable.
Question 1 refers to the excerpt below.
“Influential 20th-century historians, such as Pulitzer-Prize winning Richard Hofstadter and Robert Wiebe, described the
United States as a fragmented republic searching for order and dismissed the presence of corruption during the Gilded
Age. They described the era as one of laissez-faire and weak government…I see a strong government that repeatedly
intervened in the economy with tariffs, subsidies and social welfare programs. It had power – but without administrative
capacity – so it granted authority to private bodies and relied on fees and subsidies rather than bureaucracy. This
contributed a great deal to the corruption about which Americans complained…It is hard to argue that conditions for
ordinary Americans improved. Those benefits were largely reserved for the 20th century…Reconstruction and the Gilded
Age…was less about individualism than cooperation…Most people organized their lives around the home. [In their view],
real men defended and supported a home; true women maintained and reproduced the home. Men who could not do this
did not deserve full citizenship and the vote.”
Stanford historian Richard White, Interview with Stanford News Service, 201
1. Using the excerpt above, respond to parts (a), (b), and (c).
(a) Briefly describe White’s interpretation of the late 19th century.
(b) Briefly explain how ONE historical event or development from the period 1865 to 1920 could be used to support White’s claim
about the government during the Gilded Age.
(c) Briefly explain how ONE historical event or development from the period 1865 to 1920 could be used to support White’s claim
about American society during the Gilded Age.
© Heimler’s History TM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 21 of 28

Section I, Part B | Short Answer Questions
Question 2 refers to the excerpt below.
“Our nation is moving toward two societies, one black, one white—separate and unequal…What white Americans have
never fully understood — but what the Negro can never forget — is that white society is deeply implicated in the ghetto.
White institutions created it, white institutions maintain it, and white society condones it.
…To pursue our present course will involve the continuing polarization of the American community and, ultimately, the
destruction of basic democratic values…Little basic change in the conditions underlying the outbreak of disorder has
taken place. Actions to ameliorate Negro grievances have been limited and sporadic; with but few exceptions, they have
not significantly reduced tensions…A new mood has sprung up among Negroes, particularly among the young, in which
self-esteem and enhanced racial pride are replacing apathy and submission to “the system.”
Report of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders (the Kerner Commission), 1968
2. Using the excerpt, respond to parts a, b, and c.
(a) Briefly explain ONE historical situation in the United States in the period 1945 to 1980 suggested by the perspective in the
excerpt.
(b) Briefly explain ONE historical event or development between 1945 to 1980 that resulted from the developments such as those
depicted in the excerpt
(c) Briefly explain how ONE historical event or development from the period 1945 to 1980 could be used to support one claim
made by the commission in the excerpt
Choose EITHER question 3 OR question 4
3. Answer (a), (b), and (c).
(a) Briefly describe ONE way women contributed to the independence movement in the period of 1754 to 1800.
(b) Briefly explain ONE historical continuity in women’s roles in society from 1800 to 1900
(c) Briefly explain ONE historical change in women’s roles in society from 1800 to 1900
4. Answer (a), (b), and (c).
(a) Briefly describe ONE way that US foreign policy impacted US society in the period 1900 to 1945.
(b) Briefly explain ONE historical continuity in US foreign policy in the period 1945 to 1990
(c) Briefly explain ONE historical change in US foreign policy in the period 1945 to 1990
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s History TM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 22 of 28

PRACTICE EXAM 1
DOCUMENT-BASED QUESTION
DIRECTIONS
Suggested reading and writing time: 1 hour
It is suggested that you spend 15 minutes reading the documents and 45 minutes writing your response.
Note: You may begin writing your response before the reading period is over.
Question 1 is based on the accompanying documents. The documents have been edited for the purpose of this exercise.
In your response you should do the following:
• Respond to the prompt with a historically defensible thesis or claim that establishes a line of reasoning.
• Describe a broader historical context relevant to the prompt.
• Support an argument in response to the prompt using at least six documents.
• Use at least one additional piece of specific historical evidence (beyond that found in the documents) relevant to an
argument about the prompt.
• For at least three documents, explain how or why the document’s point of view, purpose, historical situation, and/or
audience is relevant to an argument.
• Use evidence to corroborate, qualify, or modify an argument that addresses the prompt.
© Heimler’s History TM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 23 of 28

Section II | Document-Based Question
Question 1: Evaluate the extent to which Reconstruction led to change in United States society in the period 1870 to 1925.
Document 1
… [A]n American youth attending college today would learn from current textbooks…that Reconstruction was a
disgraceful attempt to subject white people to ignorant Negro rule…He would in all probability complete his education
without any idea of the part which the black race has played in America…of the cause and meaning of the Civil War and
the relation which Reconstruction had to democratic government and the labor movement today.
…White historians have ascribed the faults and failures of Reconstruction to Negro ignorance and corruption. But the
Negro insists that it was Negro loyalty and the Negro vote alone that restored the South to the Union; established the new
democracy, both for white and black, and instituted the public schools…Nations reel and stagger on their way; they make
hideous mistakes; they commit frightful wrongs; they do great and beautiful things. And shall we not best guide humanity
by telling the truth about all this, so far as the truth is ascertainable?
Source: W.E.B. Du Bois, African American civil rights leader and historian, “Black Reconstruction in America,” 1935
Document 2
It was we, the people, not we, the white male citizens, nor yet we, the male citizens; but we, the whole people, who formed
this Union…This government is not a democracy. It is not a republic. It is an odious aristocracy; a hateful oligarchy of
sex…An oligarchy of learning, where the educated govern the ignorant, or even an oligarchy of race, where the Saxon rules
the African, might be endured; but this oligarchy of sex…which ordains all men sovereigns, all women subjects, carries
dissension, discord, and rebellion into every home of the nation.
…The only question left to be settled now is: Are women persons? And I hardly believe any of our opponents will have
the hardihood to say they are not. Being persons, then, women are citizens; and no state has a right to make any law, or to
enforce any old law, that shall abridge their privileges or immunities.
*Anthony and other suffragettes cast votes in the 1872 presidential election to contest male-only electoral privileges
Source: Susan B. Anthony, trial speech from US v Susan B. Anthony*, 1873
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s History TM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 24 of 28

Section II | Document-Based Question
Document 3
Section 3: . . . [I]t shall not be lawful for any freedman, free negro or mulatto to intermarry with any white person…
Section 5: . . . Every freedman, free negro and mulatto shall, on the second Monday of January, one thousand eight hundred
and sixty-six, and annually thereafter, have a lawful home or employment, and shall have written evidence thereof . . .
Section 7: . . . Every civil officer shall, and every person may, arrest and carry back to his or her legal employer any freedman,
free negro, or mulatto who shall have quit the service of his or her employer before the expiration of his or her term of service
without good cause . . .
Source: Mississippi Black Codes, 1965 (excerpts)
Document 4
Source: The first colored senator and representatives - in the 41st and 42nd Congress of the United States, published by Currier & Ives,
1872. Group portrait of African American legislators: Robert C. De Large, Jefferson H. Long, H.R. Revels, Benj. S. Turner, Josiah T. Walls,
Joseph H. Rainy [i.e., Rainey], and R. Brown Ellio
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s History TM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 25 of 28

Section II | Document-Based Question
Document 5
Section 1: All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the
United States and of the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges
or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without
due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
Source: Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, 1868
Document 6
...No section shows a more prosperous laboring population than the negroes of the South, none in fuller sympathy with the
employing and land-owning class. He shares our school fund, has the fullest protection of our laws and the friendship of
our people.
…The old South rested everything on slavery and agriculture, unconscious that these could neither give nor maintain
healthy growth. The new South presents a perfect democracy...and a diversified industry that meets the complex needs of
this complex age…
Source: Georgia journalist Henry Grady, Editor of the Atlanta Constitution newspaper, in a speech to the Bay State Club
of Boston and New England Club of New York, 1889
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s History TM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 26 of 28

Section II | Document-Based Question
Document 7
The relation of whites and Negroes in the United States is our most grave and perplexing domestic problem…Many white
Americans, while technically recognizing Negroes as citizens, cannot bring themselves to feel that they should participate
in government as freely as other citizens.
…Racial misunderstanding has been fostered by the ignorance and indifference of many white citizens concerning the
marvelous industry and courage shown by the Negroes and the success they have achieved in their fifty-nine years of
freedom.
…As the problem is national in its scope and gravity, the solution must be national. And the nation must make sure that
the Negro is educated for citizenship…Both races need to understand that their rights and duties are mutual and equal,
and that their interests in the common good are identical; that relations of amity are the only protection against race
clashes…
Source: Chicago Commission on Race Relations, The Negro in Chicago (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1922)
AP® United States History Practice Exam 2
© Heimler’s History TM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 27 of 28

PRACTICE EXAM 1
LONG ESSAY QUESTION
DIRECTIONS
Answer Question 2 or Question 3 or Question 4
Suggested writing time: 40 minutes
In your response you should do the following:
• Respond to the prompt with a historically defensible thesis or claim that establishes a line of reasoning.
• Describe a broader historical context relevant to the prompt.
• Support an argument in response to the prompt using specific and relevant examples of evidence.
• Use historical reasoning (e.g., comparison, causation, continuity or change over time) to frame or structure an argument
that addresses the prompt.
• Demonstrate a complex understanding of the historical development that is the focus of the prompt, using evidence to
corroborate, qualify, or modify an argument that addresses the question.
Question 2: Evaluate the extent to which the American independence movement changed American society from 1754 to 1800.
Question 3: Evaluate the extent to which the expansion of democracy contributed to the development of national identity in the
period 1800 to 1848.
Question 4: Evaluate the extent to which debates over the role of the federal government led to changes in United States economic
policy in the period 1900 to 1945.
[STOP END OF EXAM]
© Heimler’s History TM Please do not share or post online. Authorized use for school year 2025-2026.
*Advanced Placement® and AP® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the College Board, which was not involved in the production of, and does not endorse, this product. page 28 of 28

